where it's a fantastic morning here in
Strom ness it's only about half past six
and the sun's already high in the sky
doesn't seem to be any wind sees calm
beautiful morning forecast for today
isn't too bad the Windsor from the
south-southwest at should give us a fair
bit of shelter but tomorrow the West
police of blowing up so it'd be nice to
be among the shelter of the Isles
see how it goes
well there's the first surprise of the
day the tidal race I hadn't been
expecting at this time of day but it's
stretching almost all the way across
between boy it looks like we can find
the channel up to the north here that we
can go through but this is a lot worse
than we saw in the Pentland Firth looks
like this little whirlpools forming
death and a definite serious tide race I
guess we just timed it wrongly we're
thinking more about getting out on the
whole journey just just getting into the
first bits that now so I'm gonna head
north and see if I can avoid it
we managed to miss the worst of the
tight race
I'm assumed back in calm waters off the
island of hoi hoi has some of the
biggest sea cliffs in the British Isles
over a thousand feet high
we've got plenty death
you get right in underneath
but it's probably best known for its
impressive and famous C stack the old
man of Hawaii
from there we took a direct course for
mainland Scotland's most northeasterly
headland
so we're right underneath the clips and
underneath the lighthouse at Cape Wrath
the very northwest tip of Scotland and
this is probably the place which had
worried me most when I was planning the
trip I was just terrified at this place
thinking just how remote it was how far
from any fuel how bleak it was going to
be how stormy it could be and it's
absolutely flat calm it's beautiful you
couldn't want better conditions to go
around bit cold it's freezing cold I
been wearing gloves to drive but
absolutely fantastic conditions it's so
good that what we're going to do is just
hang here have a cup of tea to warm up
before we head round the corner to fuel
up
my Scottish is very good but that was an
boo Kylie bu
ACH a I ll be haven't got a clue a
pronounce it as an attack the bitter
rock
just see you have just finished this one
there one there they've been really
close to the shore
there must be feeding got the feeding
Emily they're really intent on the
mission to go backwards and forwards
coming up everywhere yeah it's a couple
there one just jumped
what
so Gerry Mao was I haven't got a clue is
black and white he looked like an orca
didn't that the colors of effort who
can't be but it was the behaving
completely different with dolphins
dolphins are getting the fin coming up
and the body going down and that just
saw just leaping leaping leaping wasn't
it
I'm got fluid it was time for the ID
Booker thinking like everywhere we
visited we got a warm and helpful
welcome and Kinloch burfi the question
was where to head necks we could keep
heading south or we could make another
detour and motor across to the Hebrides
at the planning stage of the trip we
totally ruled this out as an option but
right now it seemed tantalizingly
possible